hey this is presto Walker happy 2018 to
celebrate the new year I want to share a
math trick that got really popular and
even got coverage in places like The
Telegraph follow the directions
carefully and do the calculations in
sequence use a calculator to check your
work and press the equal sign after each
step the trick works only in the year
2018 get started with your shoe size
round down to the nearest whole number
we don't want any half sizes now
multiply by 5 then add 50
then multiplied by 20
ad 1017
if you have already had your birthday
this year add one more otherwise do
nothing finally subtract the year that
you were born the answer will be your
shoe size followed by your age amazing
please share if this effect worked for
you the more interesting question
mathematically is why does it work can
you figure out the algebra give it a try
and when you're ready keep watching for
my explanation so let's go through each
step we start with your shoe size which
I'll denote by the variable s we
multiply by 5 to get 5 s then we add 50
which results in 5 s plus 50 now we need
to multiply by 20 so we take the entire
term 5 s plus 50 and multiply it by 20
the 20 will distribute to each of these
terms so we end up with 100 s plus 1000
now we add 1017 to get 100 s plus 2017
if you have already had your birthday
this year add one more which would
result in 100 s plus 2018
we finally need to subtract the year
that you were born so there are two
cases if you have not had your birthday
this year this will be 100 s plus 2017
minus the year that you were born and
since you have not had your birthday
already 2017 minus the year that you
were born will be your age so we end up
with 100 s plus your age if you have had
your birthday then when you take 100 s
plus 2018 minus the year that you were
born 2018 minus the year that you were
born will be your age so this will be a
hundred s plus your age so the variable
S has been shifted over two decimal
places and then the remaining two will
be your age a two digit number so that's
why the answer will be your shoe size
followed by your age thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog my your decisions if
you like this video you can check out my
books which are listed in the video
description you can support me on
patreon and you can also catch me on
social media either at mind your
decisions or at pressure tal Walker